one Australian citizen was among those
killed in that attack prime minister
Anthony albanesi says his government
wants
answers expects full accountability for
the deaths of Aid workers uh which is
completely
unacceptable uh Aid workers and those
doing humanitarian work and indeed all
innocent civilians need to be provided
with protection Australia has had a very
clear position
of supporting a sustainable ceasefire of
calling for it for some period of time
uh we certainly have already contacted
uh the Israeli government directly uh we
are contacting the Israeli Ambassador uh
to uh ask uh for uh accountability here
uh the truth is that that this is beyond
uh Beyond any reason able circumstances
someone going about providing Aid and
humanitarian assistance uh should lose
their
life joining us now on Al jazer is
Marine faruki who's Deputy leader of the
Australian greens and a senator for New
South Wales she's joining us from Sydney
very good to have you with us miss
faruki what do you make of this incident
and how would you like to see the
Australian government
respond good to be with you I mean
Israel is is committing War Crime After
War crime in broad daylight and is
getting away with it we know that Aid
workers and civilians are protected
under law yet nearly 200 humanitarian
workers have been killed over the past
few months more than 30,000 Palestinians
have been massacred by Israel and now
Zumi who is an Australian Aid worker
like other Aid workers who are putting
their lives on the line to feed the
children that are being starved by
Israel are being killed this is
completely heartbreaking and
devastating no one literally no one and
nowhere is safe in Gaza under Israel's
genocidal attacks um and yet and yet we
have seen Western governments call
Israel a friend and we have seen Western
governments continue on business as
usual with Israel while these war crimes
and War atrocities are going ahead so
it's not enough for the prime minister
to say that we are demanding
accountability of course that's the bare
minimum but the Australian government
still uses terms like human tragedy and
humanitarian catastrophe as if this is
happening in a vacuum as if Israel isn't
attacking and murdering these people I
think these weasel words have to end
Australia has to take strong and
concrete action what specific actions
precisely would you like to see the
Australian government take as you said
the Prime Minister has demanded
accountability what should
accountability look look like and what
specific actions would you like to see
your government
take well as a start a permanent
ceasefire again no weel words a
permanent ceasefire and Australia should
back South Africa's case in the
international court of justice um
Australia should put sanctions on prime
minister Netanyahu and his War cabinet
these are things that we do when other
war crimes happen um and Australia
should stop all arms trade with Israel
arms trade on the arms trade with Israel
uh the the Australian uh Deputy uh prime
minister said that uh these armed tra
insist that there were no exports of
weapons from Australia to Israel and
that they haven't been for for many
years are these armed trades still going
on because the government seems to be
denying
this well between 2016 and 2023 the
Australian government approved more than
300 export permits to Israel for
military and dual use equipment and
that's on like we know that $15.5
Million worth of uh that uh arms and
ammunitions were traded between those
years and that's on the department of
Foreign Affairs And Trades website also
it is beyond any doubt that uh
components of F35 fighter jets are being
manufactured in Australia so I think
again using um words to describe arms
trades as something else is just it's
just immoral by the Australian
government to do
so if if the Australian government as
you say is manufacturing components of
some of the weapons that are being used
in Gaza right now do you believe
Australia is complicit in the ongoing
genocide in
Gaza absolutely the Australian
government is complicit in the ongoing
genocide um in Gaza and that's why they
have to take strong action not just talk
about accountability but actually act to
get that accountability from Israel and
acting does mean putting sanctions on
Israel it does mean ending military
trade to Israel it does mean actually
forcing Israel to open up the channels
so that um you know the road blocks so
that Aid can get into every corner of
Gaza Marine faruki thank you very much
for speaking to us and sharing your
views Marine faruki is Deputy leader of
Australia's greens and a senator for New
South Wales we appreciate your time on
aler thank you for having me